---
description: Find out how we collect certain information or data about you when you use Pension Wise.
---
# Privacy policy

## The Money and Pensions Service

As of 1st January 2019, Pension Wise, The Money Advice Service and The Pensions
Advisory Service are delivered by the [Money and Pensions Service](https://www.moneyandpensionsservice.org.uk). Your
data privacy rights are not affected.

The Money and Pensions Service privacy notice can be [found here](https://www.moneyandpensionsservice.org.uk/privacy-notice). 

If you would like more information on how your data is processed, please email
[contact@pensionwise.gov.uk](mailto:contact@pensionwise.gov.uk).

Further information on your rights can be found at [https://ico.org.uk/your-data-matters](https://ico.org.uk/your-data-matters/)

## What is Pension Wise?

Pension Wise is a free and impartial government service which helps you
understand your defined contribution pension options.

The service is provided in partnership with Citizens Advice, The Pensions
Advisory Service and Teleperformance.

## Your personal data

Pension Wise collects and stores personal data for the purpose of delivering
Pensions Guidance in accordance with the statutory requirement described in
Section 333B(1) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The lawful
basis for Pension Wise processing personal data is set out in Article 6(1)(e)
of the General Data Protection Regulations as follows:

^processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller^

Your data will be shared between Pension Wise and our delivery partners
(Citizens Advice, The Pensions Advisory Service and Teleperformance) only where
it is necessary for the purpose of providing you with Pension Wise guidance.

For eligibility webchat with the Pensions Advisory Service, your transcript is
stored for a period of 12 months before being deleted.

We won’t share your information with any other organisations for marketing or
commercial purposes, and we don’t pass on your details to other websites.

## How we use your information - booking an appointment

When you use our online booking system or call our booking phone line, you will
be asked to provide your name, telephone number, email address, date of birth,
and pension type which will be stored on our system and used for the purpose of
checking eligibility and booking you an appointment slot at your desired
time/location with one of our guidance specialists. We may use the telephone
number you provide to send you a text to remind you that your appointment is
coming up. We may also store data about any reasonable adjustments you may
require to help you to access the appointment.

If you have no further contact with Pension Wise after booking an appointment
(for example if you subsequently cancel the appointment and do not re-book),
your personal data will be stored in our booking system for a maximum of 2 years
from the date the booking was made and then deleted. Calls to our booking line
are recorded and stored for 6 months.

The lawful basis for Pension Wise processing personal data for this purpose is
set out in Article 6(1)(e) of the General Data Protection Regulations.

## How we use your information - guidance appointments

Face to face and telephone appointments are delivered through Citizens Advice,
The Pensions Advisory Service and Teleperformance.

During a Pension Wise guidance appointment questions will be asked about your
personal and family affairs, financial arrangements and plans and general state
of health to inform the discussion with the guidance specialist.

Some of these details may be stored on our systems as part of the record of
your appointment.

### Personal data

The lawful basis for Pension Wise processing this data for the delivery of
appointments in conjunction with our delivery partners (the Citizens Advice
network, The Pensions Advisory Service and Teleperformance), and storing your
data securely for a maximum of 2 years, is set out in Article 6(1)(e) of the
General Data Protection Regulations; _“performance of a task carried out in the
public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the
controller”_

For telephone appointments with the Pensions Advisory Service, Citizens Advice
and Teleperformance, key details from your appointment are stored, and calls
are recorded and stored, for a maximum of two years before being deleted.

For appointments delivered by the Citizens Advice network, they will ask for
your consent to store key details from your appointment for a period of six
years, in line with their organisational retention policy. This is to respond
to any comments/complaints that arise within the 6 year statute of limitation
period. The lawful basis for this is set out in Article 6(1)(a) of the General
Data Protection Regulations; _“the data subject has given consent to the
processing of his or her personal data for one or more specific purposes”_

Consent can be withdrawn at any time by contacting Citizens Advice directly, or
by emailing [contact@pensionwise.gov.uk](mailto:contact@pensionwise.gov.uk).

### Health data

For appointments delivered by Citizens Advice England and Wales, any basic
health data you provide when requesting an appointment online and during the
appointment may be stored in general terms as part of the record of
appointment, where it is relevant to your pension options (for example a health
condition may entitle you to an enhanced annuity). Where this occurs,
processing and retention of this data for a maximum of 2 years is in accordance
with Article 9(2)(g) of the General Data Protection Regulations, in reference
to Schedule 1, Part 2(6)(1 and 2) of the Data Protection Act 2018.

Citizens Advice will ask for your consent to store any basic health data
discussed in your appointment for a period of six years, in line with their
organisational retention policy. This consent process is in accordance with
Article 9(2)(a) of the General Data Protection Regulations.

Consent can be withdrawn at any time by contacting Citizens Advice directly, or
by emailing [contact@pensionwise.gov.uk](mailto:contact@pensionwise.gov.uk).

You will be provided with a summary of your appointment.

## How we use your information - appointment summary

After your appointment we will send you a document to summarise what was
discussed. We will ask for your postal address and/or email address to send
this to you. We also use your postcode to understand the spread of where our
appointment customers are located across the UK.

## How we use your information - website

The information we collect on the website includes:

- questions, queries or feedback you leave, including your email address if you send an email to Pension Wise
- your IP address, and details of which version of web browser you used
- information on how you use the site, using cookies and page tagging techniques to help us improve the website

This helps us to:

- improve the site by monitoring how it is used
- respond to any feedback you send us, if you’ve asked us to
- provide you with information about local services if you want it

We can’t personally identify your use of the website using this data.

Any personal data collected will be deleted after being securely stored for a
maximum of 2 years.

## How we use your information - complaints 

If you have a live complaint we will store your booking and appointment data
for longer than our standard retention period if it is necessary to effectively
respond to the complaint and deal with any subsequent appeals. Any complaints
will be stored for 2 years from the date of resolution.

## How we use your information - research

During your interactions with Pension Wise you will be asked if you would be
happy to be contacted by our research partner. If you consent to this, Ipsos
Mori may contact you to ask if you wish to participate in research and
evaluation of your experience of Pension Wise. Participation is entirely
voluntary and will not affect the service that you receive from Pension Wise.
The research involves asking you questions about your experience of the Pension
Wise service, and the actions you have taken towards accessing your pension
since your appointment. This research helps us to develop and improve the
Pension Wise service. 

You can withdraw your consent to be contacted by Ipsos Mori at any time, by
emailing contact@pensionwise.gov.uk 

## Storing your data securely

We store your data on secure servers within the EU. We have procedures and
security features in place to keep your data secure once we receive it.
 
## Links to other websites

Pension Wise contains links to and from other websites.

This privacy policy only applies to Pension Wise, and doesn’t cover other
government services and transactions that we link to.

If you go to another website from this one, read the privacy policy on that
website to find out what it does with your information.

## Your rights

### Right to object

In accordance with Article 21 of the General Data Protection Regulations, you
have the right to object to us processing your data. Depending on the nature of
the request, this may interfere with our ability to provide you with guidance.
For example, if you wanted a telephone appointment but objected to us using
your phone number, we would not be able to call you to conduct the appointment.
As another example, if you objected to us using both your email address and
your postal address, we would not be able to send you a confirmation of your
appointment booking, or a summary of your appointment.

### Other rights

You have the right to access any of your personal data that Pension Wise hold.
You have a right to be given a copy of your data, and a right to correct any
inaccuracies in the data. You can request deletion of some or all of your data
or a restriction in the use of your data. You can also request that some of the
data we hold is transferred to a third party.

If you wish to contact us in relation to your data or our data policies, you
can email [contact@pensionwise.gov.uk](mailto:contact@pensionwise.gov.uk)
setting out your query.

You have the right to raise concerns you have about our handling of your data
with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO). Further details on your
rights and the process for raising a concern can be found at <a
href="https://ico.org.uk/for-the-public"
rel="external">ico.org.uk/for-the-public</a>.

The Data Protection Officer responsible for the Pension Wise service is Emma
Wheeler.
